# Network application
- a process is communicatining with another network but through a network
- Programming a network edge device.
- a edge device runs on the protocol stack. 

## Two types of Architecture

### Client-Server
- Server: always on.
    - our computer is not a server because it is not always on.
    - It has permament IP address.
        - ip address is always static, because if changes are done, the client will not be able to find the server. So, other clients can conveniently request the server.
    - for a google search, we initiate a request to the server, and the server responds to the request.

- Client: communicates with the server.
    - It creates a connection requests and the server responds to it.


### Peer-to-Peer
- no always on server.
- scalability: as more users join, the service capacity increases.
- Each node at the same time is a client and a server.
    - they run two different processes.
- Each node needs to initiate a connection to another node and listen to the connection requests.



## Processes communication
- Program running within a host.
- Defined by operating system.
- if there are two processes at the same host and they want to communicate, they can use concept like pipes, shared memory, etc.

- client process
    - process that initiates the communication.
    - it is the one that sends the request.
- server process
    - process that waits to be contacted.
    - it is the one that responds to the request.



## Sockets

- a process sends/receives messages to/from its socket.

- its similar to a door, it sends the message through the door and then the next layer open the door and receives the message.
- if the data is too large? 
- The data shouldn't acceed the maximum size of the data that can be taken by the next layer. 

### Addressing process
- we need to identify the address of the next layer. 
    - an identifier is used 
        - includes IP address and port number
    - host device has unique 32-bit IP address
        - if someone wants to connect to a host, the server needs to be running on a specific port number.
    - 1-1000 ports are reserved for well-known services.
- Several processes can be running on the same host.



## Application Layer Protocol

- The protocol defines:
    - type of the message

    - message syntax
        - fields in messages
        - how fields are delineated
    - message semantics
        - meaning of information in fields
    - rules for when and how processes send and respond to messages
    - Open protocols


### Protocol requirements
- Reliability:  when you are sending and recieveing an email/message, we cannot loose the packets.
- some applciations requires low delay.
    - games
- multimedia aplicaitons require minimum throughput.
    - Elastic applications: can adapt 
- security
    - encryption
    - data integrity.