# Application Layer Protocol

## HTTP Request Message

- two types of messages
    - request message
    - response message

- HTTP request message
    - GEt method - the client sends a request to the server
    - HOST - the server that the client wants to connect to
    - User-Agent - the client that is sending the request

- How it looks like
    - Method
    - URL
    - Version
    - Headers (file names)


### POST method
- The client sends a request to the server to create a new resource.
- the browser is using the host command


### GET method
- For sending data to server
- include the data in the URL

### HEAD Method
-  When the meta-data is asked
    - version of http
    - headers
    - language supported by the server

### PUT method
- UPloading a file to the server
- Used to replace the existing file on the server


## HTTP Response Message
- Format
    - status line: when the server can understand our request, status code is 200 OK.
    - headers: meta-data
    - keep-alive: the server can keep the connection alive for a certain period of time.


## HTTP Status Codes
- 200 OK: The request was successful.

- 301 Moved Permanently: The requested resource has been moved to a new URL.
- 404 Not Found: The requested resource could not be found.
- 400 Bad Request: The server could not understand the request due to invalid syntax.
- 505 HTTP Version Not Supported: The server does not support the HTTP protocol version used in the request.


## HTTP Cookies
- websites and clients use cookies
- To keep track of the users activity, they use this user/server state

- client
    - are assigned a unique number by the server
    - the client sends this number to the server
- server
    - the server keeps track of the clients
    - the server can identify the client by the unique number

- If the server recognises that the user is not in the database, it will create a new user and assign a unique number to the user. It will send http response to set cookie
- then the message will be sent again with the new cookie code to the server, then the user gets the response.

## Web Caches

- the goal is to reduce the response time
- the cache (proxy user) is a copy of the server
- it basically sends the http request to the proxy server and gets the response from itself without communicating with the original server.

- It acts as both client and server.
    - server for original client 
    - client for original server

### Why?
- to reduce the response time
- to reduce the load on the server
- to reduce the traffic on the network


## HTTP/2
- the main goal was to reduce the multi-object request time in https.

- Lets say there are 4 objecs. 
- the client sends those requests.
- But what if the object 1 is very big and takes a long time to load compared to the other objects.

- the server will break down the large object into smaller objects and send one part per object to the client.

- in http/2 it divides the objects, along with predicting the objects that the client will request as per their activity. 


### HTTP/2 to HTTP/3
- they were running 2 on tcp. 
- looked for a new protocol where they can run the http/3.
- they found QUIC.
- QUIC is a UDP based protocol.




