# Network Edge: 

- Hosts : Clients and servers
- Servers are often in data center 

- Access Networks, physical media
    - Que: how to connec tend systems to edge router?
        - residential access nets
        - institutaional access netwoks i.e. schools, companies

    - what to look for?
        - transmission rate of access network
        - shared or dedicated access 

- Network core:
    - interconnected routers
    - network of networks


### Home networks
- NAT: Network Address Translation
    - Provides a way to map multiple private addresses to a single public address

### Enterprise networks
- WLAN: Wireless Local Area Network
    

### Internet structure: a "network of networks"
- when we have an x amount of networks to be connected with each other, the optimal solution is not to connec tthem with each other directly but having two layers of connections
    - firstly it shoul db eisolated into some ISPs and then when the network is secured, 
    - it then is connected to the IXPs which are the interconnection points of the ISPs.

    - Within those access network, a chunk of the local netowrks can be connected to the regional ISP which is connected to the larger set of ISP.


    - Comes in Content provider network.
        - netflix for streaming: they cannot have the direct connection because the user if away from the headquarters, can have delays so these CDNs have their distributed networks and they have a copy of the content in multiple locations so that the user can access it from a closer location.

    - the hierarchy of the network is as follows:
        - base: access networks
        - regional ISPs
        - national ISPs
        - Internet Exchange Points (IXPs)
        - Tier 1 ISPs
        - Content Delivery Networks (CDNs): as they surpass ISPs

    - if the access network is big enough, it can certainly be connected to IXPs and/or Tier 1 ISPs

<br>
<br>

# Network Core: 

### Multiplexing
- sharing a resource among multiple users

    - Frequency Division Multiplexing (FDM): Partition resource in frequency 
        - diving the frequency resources
    
    - Time Division Multiplexing (TDM): Parition resource in time
        - we have two dimensions of the resources that we can allocate, y frequency and x time 



### the network core:
- how the data is transferred?
    - circuit switching: dedicated resource allocation
    - packet Switching: resource sharing

    - Circuit Swithcing:
        - we basically have a between clients, the data that is being shared is a continuous stream of data and we have a dedicated path between the two clients.
        - example: old telephone networks
            - it cannot be interrupted or shared
        - its inefficient for bursty data (web traffic)
        - its not scalable so we dont use it now
        - Dividing link bandwidth into two slots
            - FDM: frequency division multiplexing
            - TDM: time division multiplexing

    - Packet Switching: Hosts break application layer messages into packets
        - users a and b packets share network resources
        - each packet uses full link bandwidth
        - resources used as needed
        - if the data transfer of a and b user is big at the same time, the packets have a possibility to congest in the resources
            - they are queued in first in first out order? 

        - Danger!
            - Aggregate resource demand can exceed amount available
            - Convestion: Pakcets queue; waiting for availability.

        - Pros and cons:
            - Pros: great for bursty data
        
            - Cons: 
                - aggregate resource deamnd exceeding capacity
                - packets queued, wait for link use
                - Excessive congestion: delay and loss
                - protocols for reliable data transfer

        - Store and forward
            - packets are stored in the router and then forwarded to the next link
                - the first bit of the packet is sent to router and then after the check-up, the rest of the packet is sent by R bps to the router, then its sent to the destination.

                - if there is any fault in one of the bits of packet, the whole packet will be discarded and not be sent to the destination.