# What is Security?

## Main security properties
- Confidentiality
- Integrity
- Availability
- Anonymity
    - Unable to identify
    - Related to privacy
- Atomicity
    - eg trasferring money completes entirely or not at all
- Authentication
    - Message authentication
    - principal authentication
- Fairness
    - Avoid one of participants being able to gain some advantage over another
- Non-repudiation
    - Cannot deny  
- and more... 


### K Anonymity
- K-Anonymity, is where K is the primary level of anonymity.
- if K increases, the level of security increases and if K decreases, the level of security decreases.




- Confidentiality: Secrecy, related to privacy

- Integrity: 
    - not tbe accidentally or maliciously altered or destroyed 
    - related to privacy

- Availability:
    - availability of the resources eg data, devices, systems etc









## Confidentiality 
- "Need to know" basis for data access:
    - How do we identify who needs what data?
        - Approach: Access control specifies who can access what data.
    - How to know a person is the one who is accessing the data?
        - Approach: We need the person to identify and verify this identity. So we do identification and authentication.

- Analogously: "Need to access/use" basis for physical assets.

- Confidentiality is:
    - Difficult to ensure.
    - Easiest to assess in terms of success (binary in nature: Yes or No).



## Integrity

- Concerend with unauthorised modification of assets.
    - confidentiality - concerned with access to the assets.

- Integrity is more difficult to measure than confidentiality 
    - Not binary - degrees of integrity 
    - Context-dependent: means differn tthings in different contexts. 


## Availability

- Not understood very well yet
    - Full implementation of availability is security's next challenge. 

- Complex 
    - Context-dependent
    - 


- WE can say that an asset (resource) is availabel if:
    - timely request reponse
    - Fair allocation of resources (no starvation )
    - FAult tolerant (no total breakdown)
    - Easy to use in the intended way

### Need to balance CIA

- Example 1: C vs I + A
    - Disconnect computer from internet to increase confidentiality
    - Availability suffers, integrity suffers due to lost updates

- Example 2: I vs C + A
    - have extensive data checks by different 


### Vulnerabilities, Threats, and Controls

- Vulnerability: a wekaness in a security system
- Threat: Circumstances that have a potential to cause harm
- Controls: Means and ways to block a threatl, which tries to exploit one or more vullnerabilities.




## What is an attack?

- An attack is an action that is done to exploit a vulnerability in a system.

### Kind of threats:

- Intereception: an unauthroized party gains access to an asset.

- Interruption: an asset becomes lost, unavailable, or unusable.

- Modification: an unauthorized party changes the state of an asset.

- Fabrication: an unauthorized party conterfeits an asset. 


### Levels of vulnerabilities/threats

- D: for other assets(resources)
    - including people using the data

- C: For data
    - on top of s/w since 